Section focus handling (#286)
wpaccessibility/wp-a11y-docs: docs/topics/design/focus-hover/index.md

nav_order: 3
---

# Styling focus and hover states of interactive HTML elements

> Design interactive HTML elements so keyboard users can always clearly see which element is currently has the **focus** as they tab through the page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Design interactive HTML elements so keyboard users can always clearly see which element is currently has **focus** as they tab through the page. 
```

> For mouse users a clear **hover** state, next to the pointer changing into a hand, is helpful and regarded best practice and not a WCAG requirement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For mouse users, a clear **hover** state, in addition to the pointer changing into a hand, is considered a helpful best practice, and not a WCAG requirement.
```

WCAG 2.2 AA doesn’t require visual hover or focus states other than the browser defaults. But if a custom design for hover or focus state is provided, it must meet accessibility requirements.

The styling of the hover and focus state can be the same but doesn't have to.

## Option 1: Use the default focus outline of the browser

The advantage of keeping that the default focus outline is that you don’t have to do anything.

> The disadvantage is that each browser displays this outline differently, and that it may be hard to discover in your design. Adrian Roselli gives a clear explanation about this in [Avoid Default Browser Focus Styles](https://adrianroselli.com/2017/02/avoid-default-browser-focus-styles.html)

Reviewer: Still not sure about the word 'discover', and whether that's conveying what you want to convey.
